In everyday life, we learn
a lot without getting explicit,
positive, or negative feedback.
Imagine for example,
you are riding
a bike and hit a rock that
sends you off balance.
Let's say you recover so you
don't suffer any injury.
You might learn to avoid
rocks in the future and
perhaps react more quickly
if you do hit one.
How do we know that
hitting a rock is bad
even when nothing bad
happened this time?
The answer is that we recognize
that the state of losing
our balance is bad even
without falling and
hurting ourselves.
Perhaps we had
similar experiences in
our past when things
didn't work out so nicely.
In reinforce and learning
a similar idea allows us
to relate the value of
the current state to
the value of future states
without waiting to observe
all the future rewards.
We use Bellman equations
to formalize
this connection between the value
of a state and
its possible successors.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to derive
the Bellman equation for
state value functions,
define the Bellman equation
for action value functions,
and understand how
Bellman equations
relate current and future values.
First, let's talk about
the Bellman equation for
the state value function.
The Bellman equation for
the state value function
defines a relationship
between the value of a state and
the value of his possible
successor states.
Now, I'll illustrate how to
derive this relationship from
the definitions of the state
value function and return.
Let's start by recalling that
the state value function
is defined as the
expected return starting
from the state S. Recall that
the return is defined as
the discounted sum
of future rewards.
We saw previously that
the return at time t,
can be written recursively as
the immediate reward plus
the discounted return
at time t plus 1.
Now, let's expand
this expected return.
First, we expand
the expected return as
a sum over possible action
choices made by the agent.
Second, we expand
over possible rewards
and next states condition
on state S and action a.
We can break it down
in this order because
the action choice depends
only on the current state,
while the next state and reward
depend only on the
current state and action.
The result is a weighted sum
of terms consisting of
immediate reward plus
expected future returns
from the next state S prime.
All we have done is
explicitly write
the expectation as it's defined,
as a sum of possible outcomes
weighted by the probability
that they occur.
Note that capital R_t plus
1 is a random variable,
while the little r represents
each possible reward outcome.
The expected return
depends on states and
rewards infinitely
far into the future.
We could recursively expand
this equation as many
times as we want,
but it would only make
the expression more complicated.
Instead, we can notice
that this expected return
is also the definition of
the value function
for state S prime.
The only difference is
that the time index is t
plus 1 instead of t. This
is not an issue because
neither the policy nor
p depends on time.
Making this replacement, we get
the Bellman equation for
the state value function.
The magic of value functions
is that we can use them as a
stand-in for the average of
an infinite number
of possible futures.
We can derive a similar equation
for the action value function.
It will be a recursive
equation for the value of
a state action pair in terms of
its possible successors
state action pairs.
In this case, the
equation does not
begin with the policy
selecting an action.
This is because
the action is already
fixed as part of the
state action pair.
Instead, we skip directly
to the dynamics function
p to select the immediate reward
and next state S prime.
Again, we have
a weighted sum over
terms consisting of
immediate reward
plus expected future return given
a specific next state
little s prime.
However, unlike
the Bellman equation
for the state value function,
we can't stop here.
We want to recursive
equation for the value of
one state action pair in
terms of the
next state action pair.
At the moment, we have
the expected return given
only the next state.
To change this, we can express
the expected return from
the next state as a sum
of the agents
possible action choices.
In particular, we can change
the expectation to
be conditioned on
both the next state and
the next action and then sum
over all possible actions.
Each term is weighted by
the probability under Pi
of selecting A prime
in the state S prime.
Now, this expected return
is the same as
the definition of
the action value function
for S prime and A prime.
Making this replacement, we get
the Bellman equation for
the action value function.
So we have now
covered how to derive
the Bellman equations for
state and action value functions.
These equations
provide relationships
between the values of a state or
state action pair and
the possible next states or
next state action pairs.
You might be wondering
why we care so much
about these definitions
and relationships.
The Bellman equations capture
an important structure of
the reinforcement
learning problem.
Next, we will discuss
why this relationship is
so fundamental and reinforcement
learning and how we can use
it to design algorithms which
efficiently estimate
value functions.